RTC beta (#1778)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: rtc/introduction.md

---
layout: default
title: RTC Introduction
title_nav: Introduction
description: Introduction of what RTC is and its capabilities
keywords: rtc introduction overview
---

> RTC is a premium {{site.productname}} plugin for having multiple users collaborating on the same document using our cloud services.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

## JWT

Some cloud services for {{site.productname}} require setting up JWT authentication. This allows verifying that the end users are allowed to access a particular feature. JWT is a common authorization solution for web services and is documented in more detail at the [https://jwt.io/](https://jwt.io/) website. For more information, see the [JWT authentication]({{site.baseurl}}/rtc/jwt-authentication/) section.

## Presence API

> The RTC plugin comes with a presence api that enables you to track when users enter/leave the session. The only user information shared over the wire is the user id stored in the JWT `sub` claim local other user details like full name to be presented for a user is resolved locally so the cloud services will never see who is actually connecting. There are currently 8 distinct caret colors assigned to each connecting user. More than 8 users can still connect but then the colors will be reused.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

## End-to-end encryption

> The RTC plugin encrypts all content specific traffic that means the {{site.productname}} cloud services will not be able to read your data or be able to know who is editing all that is local to the current page running the plugin.

Reviewer: Marking as resolved: Outdated before comment was added

---
layout: default
title: RTC Introduction
title_nav: Introduction
description: Introduction of what RTC is and its capabilities
keywords: rtc introduction overview
---

{% assign beta_feature = "The RTC plugin" %}
{% assign pre-release_type = "Closed Beta" %}
{% include misc/beta-note.md %}
{{site.requires_5_6v}}<br>
{{site.premiumplugin}}<br>

## Introduction

{% include misc/rtc-description.md %}

## JSON Web Token based authentication

Some cloud services for {{site.productname}} require setting up JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication. JWTs are a common solution for communicating user authorization for web services. JWTs are used to communicate to {{site.productname}} that the user has been authorized to access {{site.cloudname}} services.

For general information on JSON Web Tokens, visit: [https://jwt.io/](https://jwt.io/).

For information on using JWT authentication with the RTC plugin, see: [JWT authentication]({{site.baseurl}}/rtc/jwt-authentication/).

## Presence API

> The RTC plugin comes with a presence API that enables you to track when users enter/leave the session. The only user information shared over the wire is the user id stored in the JWT `sub` claim. Other details like the users full name is resolved locally so the {{site.cloudname}} will never see who is actually connecting. There are currently 8 distinct caret colors assigned to each connecting user. More than 8 users can still connect but then the colors will be reused.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RTC plugin comes with a presence API that enables you to track when users enter/leave the session. The only user information shared over the wire is the user id stored in the JWT `sub` claim. Other details like the user's full name is resolved locally so the {{site.cloudname}} will never see who is actually connecting. There are currently 8 distinct caret colors assigned to each connecting user. More than 8 users can still connect but then the colors will be reused.
```

Also, not sure how to fix this but it makes it sound like each user gets 8 colours, rather than the first 8 users get unique colours and then it cycles

Reviewer: resolved in https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/pull/1778/commits/9cc200b9775691b5106c568717f3069b51dbb46e

## End-to-end encryption

The RTC plugin encrypts all content specific traffic that means the {{site.productname}} cloud services will not be able to read your data or be able to know who is editing all that is local to the current page running the plugin.

### RTC enabled features

> Currently RTC only supports a subset of the features that {{site.productname}} has however we are working on bringing over more and more of those features.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently, RTC only supports a subset of the features that {{site.productname}} provides. However, we are working on bringing over more and more of those features.
```

> Here is a list of plugins we currently support:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is a list of plugins currently supported:
```

> * [advlist]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/advlist)
> * [autoresize]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/autoresize)
> * [charmap]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/charmap)
> * [emoticons]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/emoticons)
> * [help]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/help)
> * [hr]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/hr)
> * [image]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/image) (captioned images are not yet supported)
> * [insertdatetime]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/insertdatetime)
> * [link]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/link)
> * [lists]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/lists)
> * [moxiemanager]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/premium/moxiemanager)
> * [powerpaste]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/premium/powerpaste)
> * [print]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/print)
> * [save]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/save)
> * [tabfocus]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/tabfocus)
> * [tinydrive]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/premium/tinydrive)
> * [visualblocks]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/visualblocks)
> * [wordcount]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/wordcount)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [advlist]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/advlist/)
* [autoresize]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/autoresize/)
* [charmap]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/charmap/)
* [emoticons]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/emoticons/)
* [help]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/help/)
* [hr]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/hr/)
* [image]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/image/) (captioned images are not yet supported)
* [insertdatetime]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/insertdatetime/)
* [link]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/link/)
* [lists]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/lists/)
* [moxiemanager]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/premium/moxiemanager/)
* [powerpaste]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/premium/powerpaste/)
* [print]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/print/)
* [save]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/save/)
* [tabfocus]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/tabfocus/)
* [tinydrive]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/premium/tinydrive/)
* [visualblocks]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/visualblocks/)
* [wordcount]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/wordcount/)
```

### Settings that are not available when RTC is enabled

* [custom_elements]({{site.baseurl}}/configure/content-filtering/#custom_elements)
* [end_container_on_empty_block]({{site.baseurl}}/configure/advanced-editing-behavior/#end_container_on_empty_block)
* [forced_root_block]({{site.baseurl}}/configure/content-filtering/#forced_root_block)
* [forced_root_block_attrs]({{site.baseurl}}/configure/content-filtering/#forced_root_block_attrs)
* [image_caption]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/opensource/image/#image_caption)
* [indent_use_margin]({{site.baseurl}}/configure/content-formatting/#indent_use_margin)
* [keep_styles]({{site.baseurl}}/configure/content-filtering/#keep_styles)
* [resize_img_proportional]({{site.baseurl}}/configure/advanced-editing-behavior/#resize_img_proportional)
* [valid_children]({{site.baseurl}}/configure/content-filtering/#valid_children)

### Browser support

> We only support modern desktop browsers Chrome, Firefox, Microsoft Edge and Safari.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RTC only supports the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Microsoft Edge and Safari.
```
Trying to avoid "we" here again as personification shouldn't be used in technical documentation. I'm not sure if `desktop` needs to be here though. If it's only meant to be desktop and not mobile, we should add another sentence.

> We only support modern desktop browsers Chrome, Firefox, Microsoft Edge and Safari.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to put version numbers here? Do we support the same Firefox versions as tinymce main does with RTC (for example)?

Reviewer: I have no idea about the versions supported. I think it's safe to assume that it is the same versions as the main package.

### Mobile support

> Mobile support will be introduced later.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Mobile devices are not currently supported. This will be introduced in a later release.
```
